# Upgrading Pimcore from Version 10.x to Version 11

## IMPORTANT CHANGES TO DO PRIOR THE UPDATE!

### Migrations
Make sure that migrations are executed.
Pimcore does not run migrations after `composer` update automatically anymore. If you'd like to run all available migrations including bundles and your app-specific migrations, just include the following part in your `composer.json`.
```json
"post-update-cmd": [
    "./bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate"
]
```

### Admin Bundle
Please require `pimcore/admin-ui-classic-bundle` package in your composer.json file and register the bundle in Kernel:
```php
public function registerBundlesToCollection(BundleCollection $collection): void
{
    // pimcore bundles
    $collection->addBundle(new \Pimcore\Bundle\AdminBundle\PimcoreAdminBundle\PimcoreAdminBundle(), 60);
}
```

### Web2Print
If you are using Web2Print functionality set the flag "Enable Web2Print documents in default documents view" to true to ensure the PimcoreWebToPrintBundle gets installed by default.

If you are not using Web2Print functionality set the flag to false.

## CHANGES TO DO AFTER THE UPDATE! 

### Web2Print
If you do not use Web2Print functionality, then please make sure to run the following command and queries to clean up your system.
```bash
bin/console pimcore:documents:cleanup printpage printcontainer
```

```sql
DELETE FROM `users_permission_definitions` WHERE `key` = 'web2print_settings';
UPDATE `users` SET `permissions`=REGEXP_REPLACE(`permissions`, '(?:^|,)web2print_settings(?:$|,)', '') WHERE `permissions` REGEXP '(?:^|,)web2print_settings(?:$|,)';
```

### Newsletters
If you do not use Newsletter functionality, then please make sure to run the following command to clean up your system.
```bash
bin/console pimcore:documents:cleanup newsletter
```

### Storage Config
If you use `symfony-config` as target in your `config_location` replace the following nodes in the config files for the following bundles: Custom Reports, Web2Print, Static Routes

from
```yaml
#custom_reports
pimcore:
    custom_report:
        ...
```
```yaml
#web_to_print
pimcore:
  documents:
    web_to_print:
        ...
```
```yaml
#static_routes
pimcore:
    staticroutes:
        ...
```
to
```yaml
#custom_reports
pimcore_custom_reports:
    ...
```
```yaml
#web_to_print
pimcore_web_to_print:
    ...
```
```yaml
#static_routes
pimcore_static_routes:
    ...
```

### System Settings
Appearance & Branding settings are now separated from the System settings and stored in `var/config/admin_system_settings/admin_system_settings.yaml` by default. Please copy every relevant settings from `system.yaml` into `var/config/admin_system_settings/admin_system_settings`
To save these settings into the settings store, please add following to your configuration:
```yaml
pimcore_admin:
    config_location:
        admin_system_settings:
            write_target:
                type: 'settings-store'
            read_target:
                type: 'settings-store'
```

System Settings are using LocationAwareConfigRepository. Please copy every relevant settings from `system.yaml` into `var/config/system_settings/system_settings.yaml` and remove the `system.yaml` file.
To save system settings into the settings store, please add following to your configuration:
```yaml
pimcore:
    config_location:
        system_settings:
            write_target:
                type: 'settings-store'
            read_target:
                type: 'settings-store'
```


### Remove orphaned custom settings
Since the facedetect support was removed in v11, we recommend to remove the corresponding custom settings 
in the database. You can do that by running the following commands: 
```bash
bin/console pimcore:assets:remove-custom-setting faceCoordinates
bin/console pimcore:assets:remove-custom-setting disableFocalPointDetection
bin/console pimcore:assets:remove-custom-setting disableImageFeatureAutoDetection
```

### Rebuild classes, objectBricks, fieldCollections and customLayouts
Make sure you ran the following commands to rebuild the classes, objectBricks, fieldCollections and customLayouts:
```bash
bin/console doctrine:migration:exec 'Pimcore\Bundle\CoreBundle\Migrations\Version20230412105530'
```
