doc/Development_Documentation/18_Tools_and_Features/28_Marketing_Settings/07_Piwik.md, before:

# Piwik

Similar to Google Analytics, a Piwik tracking code can be automatically injected into each response. For a basic tracking
integration you need to know the following:

* The URL to the Piwik installation you want to use
* The Piwik Site ID where you want to track your site

The Piwik URL needs to be the hostname with an optional path to your Piwik installation without scheme as iframes and
tracking calls will be included with a `//` scheme for automatic HTTP/HTTPS resolution. Valid examples:

* `piwik.example.com`
* `services.example.com/piwik`

Wrong:

* `https://piwik.example.com`

Similar to Google Analytics, you can configure the Site ID and optional code snippets which should be added to the tracking
code on a per-site level. All settings can be configured in the Piwik tab of the Marketing Settings panel.

![Piwik Site Settings](../../img/piwik_site_settings.png)


## Integrating Piwik into the Admin UI

Piwik reports can be integrated into the Admin UI at several places like the dashboard, the reports panel or as full iframe
integration of the whole Piwik app. To make those features available, you need to configure a **Report Token** in the
*Authentication Tokens* Section of the settings tab. This report token will be used for authentication when integrating
report iframes.

Please see the [Piwik FAQ](https://piwik.org/faq/general/faq_114/) on how to retrieve your API token.

As soon as this token is configured, you can use Piwik's wigets in the Dashboard and the Reports panel:

![Piwik Dashboard](../../img/piwik_dashboard.png)
![Piwik Reports Panel](../../img/piwik_reports.png)

**Important:** It is recommended to create a dedicated reporting user with **view only** permissions and to use this token
as report token. As the token acts like a password and can be extracted from the iframe URL, users could potentially use 
this token to change Piwik settings.


### Iframe Integration

Additionally you can integrate the whole Piwik app as iframe by using Piwik's [logme()](https://piwik.org/faq/how-to/#faq_30)
functionality. To use this integration, you need to configure the Piwik username to access to iframe and the **MD5 hash**
of its password (not the plain text password itself!). Similar to the report token, you should use a user with **view only**
permissions here. 

After the iframe integration is configured, you'll find a new menu entry in the marketing menu:

![Piwik Iframe integration](../../img/piwik_iframe_integration.png)


## Customizing the tracking code

If you want to influence the generated tracking code, you have multiple possibilities to do so. The tracker code is divided
into multiple code blocks which can be expanded and altered individually. As reference, please see:

* the definition of available blocks in the [Tracker implementation](https://github.com/pimcore/pimcore/blob/master/pimcore/lib/Pimcore/Analytics/Piwik/Tracker.php#L63)
* the [template](https://github.com/pimcore/pimcore/blob/master/pimcore/lib/Pimcore/Bundle/CoreBundle/Resources/views/Analytics/Tracking/Piwik/trackingCode.html.twig)
  which defines where the content of each blocks is rendered

### Adding code to a block

The central part of the Piwik tracking is the `Pimcore\Analytics\Piwik\Tracker` class which is defined as service and which
provides a `addCodePart()` method which allows you to add custom code snippets to a specific block:

```php
<?php

namespace AppBundle\Controller;

use Pimcore\Analytics\Piwik\Tracker;
use Pimcore\Analytics\SiteId\SiteId;

class ContentController
{
    public function defaultAction(Tracker $tracker)
    {
        // append a part to the default block
        $tracker->addCodePart('console.log("foo");');
        
        // append a part to a specific block
        $tracker->addCodePart('console.log("foo");', Tracker::BLOCK_BEFORE_TRACK);
        
        // prepend a part to a specific block
        $tracker->addCodePart('console.log("foo");', Tracker::BLOCK_TRACK, true);
        
        // you can also add the code only for a specific site
        // if you want to do so, you need to pass a SiteId object which identifies a tracking site
        $tracker->addCodePart('console.log("foo");', Tracker::BLOCK_TRACK, true, SiteId::forMainDomain());
    }
}
``` 

### Influencing generated code through the `CODE_TRACKING_DATA` event

Before the tracking code is generated, the `PiwikEvents::CODE_TRACKING_DATA` event is dispatched which gives you full control
over the generated code:

```php
<?php

namespace AppBundle\EventListener;

use Pimcore\Analytics\Piwik\Event\TrackingDataEvent;
use Pimcore\Analytics\Piwik\Tracker;
use Pimcore\Event\Analytics\PiwikEvents;
use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

class PiwikTrackingCodeListener implements EventSubscriberInterface
{
    public static function getSubscribedEvents()
    {
        return [
            PiwikEvents::CODE_TRACKING_DATA => 'onTrackingData'
        ];
    }

    public function onTrackingData(TrackingDataEvent $event)
    {
        // append data to a block
        $event->getBlock(Tracker::BLOCK_TRACK)->append([
            'console.log("foo");'
        ]);

        // completely empty the track block
        $event->getBlock(Tracker::BLOCK_TRACK)->setParts([]);

        // the data array is the data which will be passed to the template
        $data = $event->getData();
        $data['foo'] = 'bar';
        $event->setData($data);

        // you can also completely replace the rendered template
        $event->setTemplate('@App/Analytics/Tracking/Piwik/trackingCode.html.twig');
    }
}
```

### Overriding the rendered template

As you can see in the sample event listener above, you can change the template which will be used for the tracking code.
If you set a custom template, you can extend the core one and just override the blocks you want:

```twig
{# src/AppBundle/Resources/views/Analytics/Tracking/Piwik/trackingCode.html.twig #}
{% extends "@PimcoreCore/Analytics/Tracking/Piwik/trackingCode.html.twig" %}

{% block asyncInit %}
    {{ parent() }}

    console.log('hello world');
{% endblock %}

{% block afterScriptTag %}
    {{ parent() }}

    <script type="text/javascript">
        console.log('foo bar!');
    </script>
{% endblock %}
```

Commit message:

[PIWIK] Add docs for API update buttons

doc/Development_Documentation/18_Tools_and_Features/28_Marketing_Settings/07_Piwik.md, after:

# Piwik

Similar to Google Analytics, a Piwik tracking code can be automatically injected into each response. For a basic tracking
integration you need to know the following:

* The URL to the Piwik installation you want to use
* The Piwik Site ID where you want to track your site

The Piwik URL needs to be the hostname with an optional path to your Piwik installation without scheme as iframes and
tracking calls will be included with a `//` scheme for automatic HTTP/HTTPS resolution. Valid examples:

* `piwik.example.com`
* `services.example.com/piwik`

Wrong:

* `https://piwik.example.com`

Similar to Google Analytics, you can configure the Site ID and optional code snippets which should be added to the tracking
code on a per-site level. All settings can be configured in the Piwik tab of the Marketing Settings panel.

![Piwik Site Settings](../../img/piwik_site_settings.png)


## Integrating Piwik into the Admin UI

Piwik reports can be integrated into the Admin UI at several places like the dashboard, the reports panel or as full iframe
integration of the whole Piwik app. To make those features available, you need to configure a **Report Token** in the
*Authentication Tokens* Section of the settings tab. This report token will be used for authentication when integrating
report iframes.

The API token for a user can be found in Piwik's API settings panel (please see the [Piwik FAQ](https://piwik.org/faq/general/faq_114/)
for details).

As soon as this token is configured, you can use Piwik's wigets in the Dashboard and the Reports panel:

![Piwik Dashboard](../../img/piwik_dashboard.png)
![Piwik Reports Panel](../../img/piwik_reports.png)

**Important:** It is recommended to create a dedicated reporting user with **view only** permissions and to use this token
as report token. As the token acts like a password and can be extracted from the iframe URL, users could potentially use 
this token to change Piwik settings.


### Iframe Integration

Additionally you can integrate the whole Piwik app as iframe by using Piwik's [logme()](https://piwik.org/faq/how-to/#faq_30)
functionality. To use this integration, you need to configure the Piwik username to access to iframe and the **MD5 hash**
of its password (not the plain text password itself!). Similar to the report token, you should use a user with **view only**
permissions here. 

After the iframe integration is configured, you'll find a new menu entry in the marketing menu:

![Piwik Iframe integration](../../img/piwik_iframe_integration.png)


### Updating site settings from the Pimcore Admin

Certain site settings (currently only the list of valid domains) can be automatically exported from Pimcore to the Piwik
site configuration. To activate this feature, you need to configure an API token which will be used for API requests.

> As you'll use this token to update Piwik's settings, this token (its user) needs to be configured with write access.

For API requests, the checkbox "Use SSL for API requests" will be used to determine the used scheme.

With a configured API token, each site will show a button to either create a site or update a site's settings:

![Piwik API Update Buttons](../../img/piwik_api_update_buttons.png)


## Customizing the tracking code

If you want to influence the generated tracking code, you have multiple possibilities to do so. The tracker code is divided
into multiple code blocks which can be expanded and altered individually. As reference, please see:

* the definition of available blocks in the [Tracker implementation](https://github.com/pimcore/pimcore/blob/master/pimcore/lib/Pimcore/Analytics/Piwik/Tracker.php#L63)
* the [template](https://github.com/pimcore/pimcore/blob/master/pimcore/lib/Pimcore/Bundle/CoreBundle/Resources/views/Analytics/Tracking/Piwik/trackingCode.html.twig)
  which defines where the content of each blocks is rendered

### Adding code to a block

The central part of the Piwik tracking is the `Pimcore\Analytics\Piwik\Tracker` class which is defined as service and which
provides a `addCodePart()` method which allows you to add custom code snippets to a specific block:

```php
<?php

namespace AppBundle\Controller;

use Pimcore\Analytics\Piwik\Tracker;
use Pimcore\Analytics\SiteId\SiteId;

class ContentController
{
    public function defaultAction(Tracker $tracker)
    {
        // append a part to the default block
        $tracker->addCodePart('console.log("foo");');
        
        // append a part to a specific block
        $tracker->addCodePart('console.log("foo");', Tracker::BLOCK_BEFORE_TRACK);
        
        // prepend a part to a specific block
        $tracker->addCodePart('console.log("foo");', Tracker::BLOCK_TRACK, true);
        
        // you can also add the code only for a specific site
        // if you want to do so, you need to pass a SiteId object which identifies a tracking site
        $tracker->addCodePart('console.log("foo");', Tracker::BLOCK_TRACK, true, SiteId::forMainDomain());
    }
}
``` 

### Influencing generated code through the `CODE_TRACKING_DATA` event

Before the tracking code is generated, the `PiwikEvents::CODE_TRACKING_DATA` event is dispatched which gives you full control
over the generated code:

```php
<?php

namespace AppBundle\EventListener;

use Pimcore\Analytics\Piwik\Event\TrackingDataEvent;
use Pimcore\Analytics\Piwik\Tracker;
use Pimcore\Event\Analytics\PiwikEvents;
use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

class PiwikTrackingCodeListener implements EventSubscriberInterface
{
    public static function getSubscribedEvents()
    {
        return [
            PiwikEvents::CODE_TRACKING_DATA => 'onTrackingData'
        ];
    }

    public function onTrackingData(TrackingDataEvent $event)
    {
        // append data to a block
        $event->getBlock(Tracker::BLOCK_TRACK)->append([
            'console.log("foo");'
        ]);

        // completely empty the track block
        $event->getBlock(Tracker::BLOCK_TRACK)->setParts([]);

        // the data array is the data which will be passed to the template
        $data = $event->getData();
        $data['foo'] = 'bar';
        $event->setData($data);

        // you can also completely replace the rendered template
        $event->setTemplate('@App/Analytics/Tracking/Piwik/trackingCode.html.twig');
    }
}
```

### Overriding the rendered template

As you can see in the sample event listener above, you can change the template which will be used for the tracking code.
If you set a custom template, you can extend the core one and just override the blocks you want:

```twig
{# src/AppBundle/Resources/views/Analytics/Tracking/Piwik/trackingCode.html.twig #}
{% extends "@PimcoreCore/Analytics/Tracking/Piwik/trackingCode.html.twig" %}

{% block asyncInit %}
    {{ parent() }}

    console.log('hello world');
{% endblock %}

{% block afterScriptTag %}
    {{ parent() }}

    <script type="text/javascript">
        console.log('foo bar!');
    </script>
{% endblock %}
```
