doc/Development_Documentation/01_Getting_Started/02_Directories_Structure.md, before:

# Directories Structure

| Directory                                            | Description                                                                          |
|------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `/pimcore/` | Core files of Pimcore, do not change anything here.                                |
| `/plugins/` | Directory for [plugins / extensions](../Extending_Pimcore/Plugin_Developers_Guide/Example.md). |
| `/vendor/`  | All third-party libraries are there. It's the default location for packages installed by [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) / [Packagist](https://packagist.org/).                     |
| `/website/` | Everything regarding your individual project/application (templates, controllers, settings, objects, ...). All your code goes there (see below).   |

  
  
### Contents of `/website` 

| Directory             | Description                                                                                                        |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `/website/controllers` | Controllers of your application.                                                                      |
| `/website/config`      | Configuration files for cache, workflow modules, DI configuration, extensions additional configuration, ... [Examples](https://github.com/pimcore/pimcore/tree/master/website_demo/config)        |
| `/website/lib`         | Custom libraries (if needed, use Composer to install dependencies whenever possible)                                                                                      |
| `/website/models`      | Your custom models (if needed).                                                                                    |
| `/website/var`         | This directory contains files created by Pimcore during runtime like assets, classes, thumbnails, ... (Pimcore needs [write access](../13_Installation_and_Upgrade/03_System_Setup_and_Hosting/03_File_Permissions.md) on this directory)             |
| `/website/views`       | Your templates/views.                                                                                                    |

Commit message:

[DOCS] - 01_Getting_Started migrated to Symfony

doc/Development_Documentation/01_Getting_Started/02_Directories_Structure.md, after:

# Directories Structure

After extracting the installation package of Pimcore you should see the folder structure described below.  
The following tables should give you a quick overview about the purpose of this folders.  
In general the directory structure follows the [best practice for Symfony projects](https://github.com/symfony/symfony-demo). 

| Directory                                            | Description                               |
|------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| `/app/`     | The application configuration, templates and translations.                         |
| `/bin/`     | Executable files (e.g. bin/console).                                               |
| `/doc/`     | Core files of Pimcore, do not change anything here.                                |
| `/pimcore/` | Core files of Pimcore, do not change anything here.                                |
| `/src/`     | The project's PHP code (Services, Controllers, EventListeners, ...                 |
| `/var/`     | Private generated files - not accessible via the web (cache, logs, etc.).          |
| `/vendor/`  | All third-party libraries are there. It's the default location for packages installed by [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) / [Packagist](https://packagist.org/). |
| `/web/`     | This is the **document root** (public folder) for your project - point your vhost to this directory!  |
  
  
### The `web/` Directory

The web root directory is the home of all public and static files like images, stylesheets and 
JavaScript files. It is also where each front controller (the file that handles all requests 
to your application) lives, such as the [production controller](https://github.com/pimcore/pimcore/blob/master/web/app.php)


### The `app/` Directory
The AppKernel class is the main entry point of the Symfony application configuration and as such, 
it is stored in the `app/` directory.
  
  
For more information about the folder structure and the architecture in general, please have a look at the 
[Symfony documentation](http://symfony.com/doc/current/quick_tour/the_architecture.html).
