# Upgrade Notes for Pimcore 4 to Pimcore 5

## System Requirements
- PHP >= 7.0


## Database
- Pimcore is now using [Docrine DBAL](http://docs.doctrine-project.org/projects/doctrine-dbal/en/latest/). 
- `Zend_Db_Select` is still supported with compatibility layer. Following changes are necessary: 
  - If `$db->select()` was used to get `Zend_Db_Select` nothing has to be changed.
  - `new \Zend_Db_Select()` needs to be replaced with `new \Pimcore\Db\ZendCompatibility\QueryBuilder()`. 
  - `new \Zend_Db_Expr()` needs to be replaced `new \Pimcore\Db\ZendCompatibility\Expression()`. 
- `$db->describeTable()` not supported anymore.
- Signatures of `$db->update()` and `$this->delete()` where changed. 
  Use `$db->deleteWhere()` and `$db->updateWhere()` instead for same functionality.  
- If you experience the error "mysql server has gone away" consider using
  [this code snippet](https://gist.github.com/boekkooi/ff2ff146246d5ea20764)
- Needed SQL updates 
```sql 
ALTER TABLE `documents_page` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL AFTER `personas`;
ALTER TABLE `documents_snippet` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL AFTER `contentMasterDocumentId`;
ALTER TABLE `translations_website` CHANGE COLUMN `key` `key` VARCHAR(190) NOT NULL DEFAULT '' COLLATE 'utf8mb4_bin';
ALTER TABLE `translations_admin` CHANGE COLUMN `key` `key` VARCHAR(190) NOT NULL DEFAULT '' COLLATE 'utf8mb4_bin'; 
```
  
## Adding Object Data Types via Extensions
- Object Data and Layout Types are configured in `pimcore.objects.class_definitions.data.map` 
and `pimcore.objects.class_definitions.layout.map` in Symfony configuration files. 
- As fallback `namespace/name` matching are still available and 
configurable via `pimcore.objects.class_definitions.data.prefixes` and 
`pimcore.objects.class_definitions.layout.prefixes` 
- Plugins/Bundles can add new data types by adding their data types to the configuration 
  entries above

## JavaScript Framework

Support for ExtJS 3.4 has been finally removed as announced earlier. The current version in use is 6.0.0.
Please double-check your extensions in advance!  
  