docs/Development_Documentation/10_Extending_Pimcore/13_Plugin_Developers_Guide/05_Plugin_Backend_UI.md, before:

# Plugin Backend UI

## General

The Pimcore Backend UI is based upon the Ext JS Framework. A plugin can add Ext components to the user interface or 
execute any other Javascript required in the plugin context.

All Javascript and CSS which should be included, needs to be defined in plugin.xml, as described in 
[plugin anatomy and design](./01_Plugin_Anatomy.md). 

These scripts are loaded last upon Pimcore startup. They are loaded in the same order as specified in plugin.xml.


Starting point for javascript development is the javascript plugin class (`plugin.js`). An instance of this class 
needs to be registered as a plugin at the plugin broker, which notifies all registered plugins upon certain events.

A plugin class must extend `pimcore.plugin.admin` and can override all methods defined there. 

A simple plugin class can look as follows: 
```javascript
pimcore.registerNS("pimcore.plugin.sample");

pimcore.plugin.sample = Class.create(pimcore.plugin.admin, {
    getClassName: function() {
        return "pimcore.plugin.sample";
    },

    initialize: function() {
        pimcore.plugin.broker.registerPlugin(this);
    },
 
    pimcoreReady: function (params,broker){
        // alert("Sample Plugin Ready!");
    }
});

var samplePlugin = new pimcore.plugin.sample();
```


## Javascript UI Events
The broker then will notify each plugin upon the events described below. For registering to these events just add a 
corresponding method to the javascript plugin class. 

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| uninstall | is called when the corresponding plugin is uninstalled via Pimcore backend UI |
| pimcoreReady | Pimcore backend UI is loaded, viewport is passed as parameter |
| preOpenAsset | before asset is opened, asset and type are passed as parameters |
| postOpenAsset | after asset is opened, asset and type are passed as parameters |
| preOpenDocument | before document is opened, document and type are passed as parameters |
| postOpenDocument | after document is opened, document and type are passed as parameters |
| preOpenObject | before object is opened, object and type are passed as parameters |
| postOpenObject | after object is opened, object and type are passed as parameters |

Uninstall is called after plugin has been uninstalled - this hook can be used to remove plugin features from the UI 
after uninstall.
 
**Note:** In order to be notified upon uninstall, a plugin must override the `getClassName` method of `pimcore.plugin.admin` 
and return its own class name. 


## I18n texts for plugins

Pimcore supports i18n for plugin UI extensions. Fist see [Plugin Class](./03_Plugin_Class.md) how to prepare the data 
server-side. 

Once this is done, translations can be accessed anywhere in the plugin's javascript by calling

```javascript
t('translation_key')
```

## Adding Custom Main Navigation Items
It is possible to add leftside main navigation via plugins. See the following example to know how: 

```javascript
pimcore.registerNS("pimcore.plugin.menusample");
 
pimcore.plugin.menusample = Class.create(pimcore.plugin.admin, {
    getClassName: function () {
        return "pimcore.plugin.menusample";
    },
 
    initialize: function () {
        pimcore.plugin.broker.registerPlugin(this);
 
        this.navEl = Ext.get('pimcore_menu_search').insertSibling('<li id="pimcore_menu_mds" data-menu-tooltip="mds Erweiterungen" class="pimcore_menu_item pimcore_menu_needs_children">mds Erweiterungen</li>', 'after');
        this.menu = new Ext.menu.Menu({
            items: [{
                text: "Item 1",
                iconCls: "pimcore_icon_apply",
                handler: function () {
                    alert("pressed 1");
                }
            }, {
                text: "Item 2",
                iconCls: "pimcore_icon_delete",
                handler: function () {
                    alert("pressed 2");
                }
            }],
            cls: "pimcore_navigation_flyout"
        });
        pimcore.layout.toolbar.prototype.mdsMenu = this.menu;
    },
 
    pimcoreReady: function (params, broker) {
        var toolbar = pimcore.globalmanager.get("layout_toolbar");
        this.navEl.on("mousedown", toolbar.showSubMenu.bind(toolbar.mdsMenu));
        pimcore.plugin.broker.fireEvent("mdsMenuReady", toolbar.mdsMenu);
    }
});
 
var menusamplePlugin = new pimcore.plugin.menusample();
```


## Installing and Uninstalling Plugin UI Components

Plugin UI components might need to be activated/loaded after the plugin is installed in the Pimcore backend UI.

As plugin Javascript and CSS files are only available in the browser after installation and reloading of the UI, the 
backend plugin can return a flag that UI reload is required.
If this flag is set to true, the UI asks the user to reload after install. After that, all plugin components should be 
available.
 
With uninstall, it is not absolutely necessary to reload just to deactivate plugin components. 
The plugin is notified through the `uninstall` event (provided that it implements the `getClassName()` method correctly).
In the `uninstall` function the plugin can hide/deactivate everything in the frontend UI that will not work anymore 
after uninstalling the plugin.

Commit message:

case #949: add event to modify context-menu in trees

docs/Development_Documentation/10_Extending_Pimcore/13_Plugin_Developers_Guide/05_Plugin_Backend_UI.md, after:

# Plugin Backend UI

## General

The Pimcore Backend UI is based upon the Ext JS Framework. A plugin can add Ext components to the user interface or 
execute any other Javascript required in the plugin context.

All Javascript and CSS which should be included, needs to be defined in plugin.xml, as described in 
[plugin anatomy and design](./01_Plugin_Anatomy.md). 

These scripts are loaded last upon Pimcore startup. They are loaded in the same order as specified in plugin.xml.


Starting point for javascript development is the javascript plugin class (`plugin.js`). An instance of this class 
needs to be registered as a plugin at the plugin broker, which notifies all registered plugins upon certain events.

A plugin class must extend `pimcore.plugin.admin` and can override all methods defined there. 

A simple plugin class can look as follows: 
```javascript
pimcore.registerNS("pimcore.plugin.sample");

pimcore.plugin.sample = Class.create(pimcore.plugin.admin, {
    getClassName: function() {
        return "pimcore.plugin.sample";
    },

    initialize: function() {
        pimcore.plugin.broker.registerPlugin(this);
    },
 
    pimcoreReady: function (params,broker){
        // alert("Sample Plugin Ready!");
    }
});

var samplePlugin = new pimcore.plugin.sample();
```


## Javascript UI Events
The broker then will notify each plugin upon the events described below. For registering to these events just add a 
corresponding method to the javascript plugin class. 

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| uninstall | is called when the corresponding plugin is uninstalled via Pimcore backend UI |
| pimcoreReady | Pimcore backend UI is loaded, viewport is passed as parameter |
| preOpenAsset | before asset is opened, asset and type are passed as parameters |
| postOpenAsset | after asset is opened, asset and type are passed as parameters |
| preOpenDocument | before document is opened, document and type are passed as parameters |
| postOpenDocument | after document is opened, document and type are passed as parameters |
| preOpenObject | before object is opened, object and type are passed as parameters |
| postOpenObject | after object is opened, object and type are passed as parameters |
| prepareAssetTreeContextMenu | before context menu is opened, menu, tree class and asset record are passed as parameters |
| prepareObjectTreeContextMenu | before context menu is opened, menu, tree class and object record are passed as parameters |
| prepareDocumentTreeContextMenu | before context menu is opened, menu, tree and document record are passed as parameters |

Uninstall is called after plugin has been uninstalled - this hook can be used to remove plugin features from the UI 
after uninstall.
 
**Note:** In order to be notified upon uninstall, a plugin must override the `getClassName` method of `pimcore.plugin.admin` 
and return its own class name. 


## I18n texts for plugins

Pimcore supports i18n for plugin UI extensions. Fist see [Plugin Class](./03_Plugin_Class.md) how to prepare the data 
server-side. 

Once this is done, translations can be accessed anywhere in the plugin's javascript by calling

```javascript
t('translation_key')
```

## Adding Custom Main Navigation Items
It is possible to add leftside main navigation via plugins. See the following example to know how: 

```javascript
pimcore.registerNS("pimcore.plugin.menusample");
 
pimcore.plugin.menusample = Class.create(pimcore.plugin.admin, {
    getClassName: function () {
        return "pimcore.plugin.menusample";
    },
 
    initialize: function () {
        pimcore.plugin.broker.registerPlugin(this);
 
        this.navEl = Ext.get('pimcore_menu_search').insertSibling('<li id="pimcore_menu_mds" data-menu-tooltip="mds Erweiterungen" class="pimcore_menu_item pimcore_menu_needs_children">mds Erweiterungen</li>', 'after');
        this.menu = new Ext.menu.Menu({
            items: [{
                text: "Item 1",
                iconCls: "pimcore_icon_apply",
                handler: function () {
                    alert("pressed 1");
                }
            }, {
                text: "Item 2",
                iconCls: "pimcore_icon_delete",
                handler: function () {
                    alert("pressed 2");
                }
            }],
            cls: "pimcore_navigation_flyout"
        });
        pimcore.layout.toolbar.prototype.mdsMenu = this.menu;
    },
 
    pimcoreReady: function (params, broker) {
        var toolbar = pimcore.globalmanager.get("layout_toolbar");
        this.navEl.on("mousedown", toolbar.showSubMenu.bind(toolbar.mdsMenu));
        pimcore.plugin.broker.fireEvent("mdsMenuReady", toolbar.mdsMenu);
    }
});
 
var menusamplePlugin = new pimcore.plugin.menusample();
```


## Installing and Uninstalling Plugin UI Components

Plugin UI components might need to be activated/loaded after the plugin is installed in the Pimcore backend UI.

As plugin Javascript and CSS files are only available in the browser after installation and reloading of the UI, the 
backend plugin can return a flag that UI reload is required.
If this flag is set to true, the UI asks the user to reload after install. After that, all plugin components should be 
available.
 
With uninstall, it is not absolutely necessary to reload just to deactivate plugin components. 
The plugin is notified through the `uninstall` event (provided that it implements the `getClassName()` method correctly).
In the `uninstall` function the plugin can hide/deactivate everything in the frontend UI that will not work anymore 
after uninstalling the plugin.
