doc/Development_Documentation/23_Installation_and_Upgrade/09_Upgrade_Notes/02_V4_to_V5.md, before:

# Upgrade Notes for Pimcore 4 to Pimcore 5

## System Requirements
- PHP >= 7.0
- [intl](http://www.php.net/intl)

## Database
- Pimcore is now using [Doctrine DBAL](http://docs.doctrine-project.org/projects/doctrine-dbal/en/latest/). 
- `Zend_Db_Select` is still supported with compatibility layer. Following changes are necessary: 
  - If `$db->select()` was used to get `Zend_Db_Select` nothing has to be changed.
  - `new \Zend_Db_Select()` needs to be replaced with `new \Pimcore\Db\ZendCompatibility\QueryBuilder()`. 
  - `new \Zend_Db_Expr()` needs to be replaced `new \Pimcore\Db\ZendCompatibility\Expression()`. 
- `$db->describeTable()` not supported anymore.
- Signatures of `$db->update()` and `$this->delete()` where changed. 
  Use `$db->deleteWhere()` and `$db->updateWhere()` instead for same functionality.  
- If you experience the error "mysql server has gone away" consider using
  [this code snippet](https://gist.github.com/boekkooi/ff2ff146246d5ea20764)
- Needed SQL updates 
```sql 
ALTER TABLE `documents_page` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL AFTER `personas`;
ALTER TABLE `documents_snippet` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL AFTER `contentMasterDocumentId`;
ALTER TABLE `documents_newsletter` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL;
ALTER TABLE `documents_printpage` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL;
ALTER TABLE `documents_email` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL;
ALTER TABLE `translations_website` CHANGE COLUMN `key` `key` VARCHAR(190) NOT NULL DEFAULT '' COLLATE 'utf8mb4_bin';
ALTER TABLE `translations_admin` CHANGE COLUMN `key` `key` VARCHAR(190) NOT NULL DEFAULT '' COLLATE 'utf8mb4_bin'; 
```

## System Settings
- Pimcore php configuration files moved to following directories
   - `app/config/pimcore/` for files that are not editable within Pimcore admin interface. 
   - `var/config` for files that can be edited within Pimcore admin interface.
- Configuration for HTTP basic auth was removed. Please configure HTTP auth directly through your web server or use the
  [Security Configuration](../../19_Development_Tools_and_Details/10_Security_Authentication/README.md) to configure
  authentication.
- Reconfigure following things: 
  - Mail-Settings
  - HTTP Connectivity
  
## Cache
- Pimcore is now using a PSR-6 compatible cache. 
- The following backends are not supported any longer: 
   - MongoDB
   - Memcache 
- Pimcore uses a [different configuration](../../19_Development_Tools_and_Details/09_Cache/01_Custom_Cache_Pools.md) for the cache 

## Model Overrides in `website/config/di.php`
`website/config/di.php` isn't supported anymore.
Custom class mappings / overrides are now configured in `app/config/config.yml`. 
Please have a look at [Overriding Models](../../20_Extending_Pimcore/03_Overriding_Models.md). 

## Logging
- PHP Errors are logged automatically to `/var/logs/ENV.log`
- Email logs, see: [http://symfony.com/doc/current/logging/monolog_email.html]
- Logging levels are specified in Symfony config
- `\Logger::log($message, $loglevel)` is not supported anymore

 
  
## Document Templates
- Set Layout only in view template possible and implemented with extend, details see [layout docs](../../02_MVC/02_Template/00_Layouts.md).
```php 
$this->extend('Appbundle::layout.html.php')
```
- Extend always bound to view template (cannot be switched on/off). As a result if a template 
that contains a `$this->extend` is included with `$this->template` into another template, 
that contains a `$this->extend` by itself, the layout is rendered twice
![Double Layouts](../../img/upgrade-layouts.png)

- `$this->template` needs echo to print included template
```php
echo $this->template("Appbundle:Snippets:standard-teaser.html.php", ["myparam" => "foo"]);
```
- When template is included with `$this->template` following parameter names cannot be used 
with `$this->parameterName` notation 
  - current
  - container
  - loader
  - helpers
  - parents
  - stach
  - charset
  - cache
  - escapers
  - globals
  - parser
  - evalTemplate
  - evalParameter

## Controller Plugins
- Replaced by Kernel Events

| Controller-Plugin | Service |
| ----------------- | ------- |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Analytics` | `pimcore.event_listener.google_analytics_code` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Cache` | `pimcore.event_listener.full_page_cache` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\EuCookieLawNotice ` | `pimcore.event_listener.cookie_policy_notice` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\GoogleTagManager` | `pimcore.event_listener.google_tag_manager` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Maintenance` | `pimcore.event_listener.maintenance_page` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\TagManagement` | `pimcore.event_listener.tag_manager` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Targeting` | `pimcore.event_listener.targeting` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Webmastertools` | `pimcore.event_listener.google_search_console_verification` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\WysiwygAttributes` | `pimcore.event_listener.internal_wysiwyg_html_attribute_filter` |

- Replaced by Routes

| Controller-Plugin | Name |
| ----------------- | ---- |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\CommonFilesFilter` | `_pimcore_service_common_files` `_pimcore_service_common_files_apple_touch_icon` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\HybridAuth` | `_pimcore_service_hybridauth` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\QrCode` | `_pimcore_service_qrcode` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Thumbnail` | `_pimcore_service_thumbnail` |



## Translations (Shared + Admin) 
- Use of Standard Symfony Translation Component
- Supporting domains / bundles, ... 
- They are now case-sensitive
- Dot-separated fallback notation isn't supported anymore



## E-Mail
- `Pimcore\Mail` now extends `Swift_Message` instead of `Zend_Mail`
- The most common methods should be as they were, following method signature changes are significant:
  - `__construct($subject = null, $body = null, $contentType = null, $charset = null)`
  - `addAttachment(\Swift_Mime_Attachment $attachment)`
  - `createAttachment($data, $mimeType = null, $filename = null, $disposition = null)`
  - `send(\Swift_Mailer $mailer = null)` & `sendWithoutRendering(\Swift_Mailer $mailer = null)`
- check all usages of `Pimcore\Mail`


## Custom Routes 
All parameters needed for assembly url (mentioned in reverse) must be listed in variables.
![Custom Routes](../../img/upgrade-custom-routes.png)


## Events
The Event Manager got replaced by Symfony framework event dispatcher. There is a compatibility 
layer for the Pimcore 4 event manager events though. Except the listed events below, you still could use the Pimcore 4 events. 

|Name | Replacement |
|-----|-------------|
| system.startup | Use the `AppKernel` class | 
| system.di.init | `Pimcore\Event\SystemEvents::PHP_DI_INIT` |
| system.maintenance.activate | `Pimcore\Event\SystemEvents::MAINTENANCE_MODE_ACTIVATE` | 
| system.maintenance.deactivate | `Pimcore\Event\SystemEvents::MAINTENANCE_MODE_DEACTIVATE` | 
| system.cache.clearOutputCache | `Pimcore\Event\SystemEvents::CACHE_CLEAR_FULLPAGE_CACHE` | 
| admin.controller.preInit | `Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\KernelEvents::CONTROLLER` | 
| admin.controller.postInit | `Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\KernelEvents::REPONSE` | 
| frontend.error | no replacement |
| frontend.controller.preInit| no replacement |
| frontend.controller.postInit| no replacement |

But it's recommended to use the new event constants instead. For details see [event docs](../../20_Extending_Pimcore/11_Event_API_and_Event_Manager.md).


## From Plugins to Bundles
- With Pimcore 5 Pimcore Plugins became default Symfony Bundles. See our [bundles docs](../../20_Extending_Pimcore/13_Bundle_Developers_Guide/README.md)
for more details. 

## Adding Object Data Types via Extensions
- Object Data and Layout Types are configured in `pimcore.objects.class_definitions.data.map` 
and `pimcore.objects.class_definitions.layout.map` in Symfony configuration files. 
- As fallback `namespace/name` matching are still available and 
configurable via `pimcore.objects.class_definitions.data.prefixes` and 
`pimcore.objects.class_definitions.layout.prefixes` 
- Plugins/Bundles can add new data types by adding their data types to the configuration 
  entries above


## Console Commands
- Console Commands need to be in the `Console` namespace and their class name needs to end with `Console`. See [Symfony Console Documentation](http://symfony.com/doc/current/console.html#creating-a-command).
- The function `$application->addAutoloadNamespace()` does not exist any more. 
- For more details see [console docs](../../19_Development_Tools_and_Details/11_Console_CLI.md).
- The following commands were moved under a `pimcore:` prefix, but are still available as aliases under their old names.
  The aliases might be removed in later versions, so please use the new names.

| `maintenance` | `pimcore:maintenance` |
| `mysql-tools` | `pimcore:mysql-tools` |
| `reset-password` | `pimcore:user:reset-password` |
| `search-backend-reindex` | `pimcore:search-backend-reindex` |
| `update` | `pimcore:update` |

- `pimcore:user:reset-password` command has a new signature, now accepting the user as first argument instead of the `-u`
  option.

## Zend Registry
- Replaced by `\Pimcore\Cache\Runtime`, interface compatible with `Zend_Registry`
```php
\Pimcore\Cache\Runtime // (interface compatible with Zend_Registry)
// or
$this->get("pimcore.cache.runtime") // service container
```


## Pimcore\Tool::getHttpClient()
- Is only available if [Compatibility Bridge](https://github.com/pimcore/pimcore4-compatibility-bridge) is available. 
- Now returns `GuzzleHttp\Client` instead of `Zend_Http_Client`. 
- New http client is also available on container with ID `pimcore.http_client` - should be used for new implementations.


## Sessions
- If you need sessions, please use the native session handling provided by Symfony 
   (configured through the `framework.session` config). For details see 
   [sessions docs](../../19_Development_Tools_and_Details/35_Working_with_Sessions.md).
- Pimcore adds the possibility to configure sessions before they are started through 
   `SessionConfiguratorInterface` registered as service with the 
   `pimcore.session.configurator` tag.
- Admin sessions `Pimcore\Tool\Session::get/getReadonly()` now return an 
  `AttributeBagInterface´ instead of a ´Zend_Session_Namespace`. Calls to the bag need 
  to be adapted as Symfony's bags do not support magic setters/getters as the 
  Zend namespace did.


## International Number and Date Formatting
- Added a Service for international number and date formatting. For details see [docs page](../../06_Multi_Language_i18n/09_Formatting_Service.md).  


## Functionalities only available when using PimcoreLegacyBundle
- Legacy Underscore Naming Convention of old Pimcore class names like `Object_Abstract`, 
`Document_Page`, `Asset_Image`, ...


## Deprecated Constants
| Name | Equivalent |
| ---- | ---------- | 
| `PIMCORE_FRONTEND_MODULE` | `PIMCORE_SYMFONY_DEFAULT_BUNDLE` |
| `PIMCORE_PLUGINS_PATH` | - |
| `PIMCORE_WEBSITE_PATH` | `PIMCORE_APP_ROOT` |
| `PIMCORE_DOCUMENT_ROOT` | `PIMCORE_WEB_ROOT or PIMCORE_LEGACY_ROOT` |
| `PIMCORE_WEBSITE_VAR` | `PIMCORE_PRIVATE_VAR` |


## Removed Features and Services 

- ExtJs 3.4 Support: Support for ExtJS 3.4 has been finally removed as announced earlier. The current version in use is 
6.0.0. **Please double-check your extensions in advance!**  
- Object Key-Value Store: Use the Classification-Store instead.
- Whoops Error Handler: Got replaced by Symfony default error handler. 
- `startup.php` not supported anymore: Use `boot()` function in `AppKernel` or `AppBundle` instead
- Removed `Pimcore\Tool\XmlWriter` Service
- Removed `\Pimcore\File\Transfer*` Classes
- Controller Plugins
   - `\Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\CssCombine`
   - `\Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\CDN`
   - `\Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Less`

Commit message:

[DOCS] Update renderlet documentation and add upgrade notice regarding dropped parameters #1422

doc/Development_Documentation/23_Installation_and_Upgrade/09_Upgrade_Notes/02_V4_to_V5.md, after:

# Upgrade Notes for Pimcore 4 to Pimcore 5

## System Requirements
- PHP >= 7.0
- [intl](http://www.php.net/intl)

## Database
- Pimcore is now using [Doctrine DBAL](http://docs.doctrine-project.org/projects/doctrine-dbal/en/latest/). 
- `Zend_Db_Select` is still supported with compatibility layer. Following changes are necessary: 
  - If `$db->select()` was used to get `Zend_Db_Select` nothing has to be changed.
  - `new \Zend_Db_Select()` needs to be replaced with `new \Pimcore\Db\ZendCompatibility\QueryBuilder()`. 
  - `new \Zend_Db_Expr()` needs to be replaced `new \Pimcore\Db\ZendCompatibility\Expression()`. 
- `$db->describeTable()` not supported anymore.
- Signatures of `$db->update()` and `$this->delete()` where changed. 
  Use `$db->deleteWhere()` and `$db->updateWhere()` instead for same functionality.  
- If you experience the error "mysql server has gone away" consider using
  [this code snippet](https://gist.github.com/boekkooi/ff2ff146246d5ea20764)
- Needed SQL updates 
```sql 
ALTER TABLE `documents_page` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL AFTER `personas`;
ALTER TABLE `documents_snippet` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL AFTER `contentMasterDocumentId`;
ALTER TABLE `documents_newsletter` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL;
ALTER TABLE `documents_printpage` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL;
ALTER TABLE `documents_email` ADD COLUMN `legacy` TINYINT(1) NULL;
ALTER TABLE `translations_website` CHANGE COLUMN `key` `key` VARCHAR(190) NOT NULL DEFAULT '' COLLATE 'utf8mb4_bin';
ALTER TABLE `translations_admin` CHANGE COLUMN `key` `key` VARCHAR(190) NOT NULL DEFAULT '' COLLATE 'utf8mb4_bin'; 
```

## System Settings
- Pimcore php configuration files moved to following directories
   - `app/config/pimcore/` for files that are not editable within Pimcore admin interface. 
   - `var/config` for files that can be edited within Pimcore admin interface.
- Configuration for HTTP basic auth was removed. Please configure HTTP auth directly through your web server or use the
  [Security Configuration](../../19_Development_Tools_and_Details/10_Security_Authentication/README.md) to configure
  authentication.
- Reconfigure following things: 
  - Mail-Settings
  - HTTP Connectivity
  
## Cache
- Pimcore is now using a PSR-6 compatible cache. 
- The following backends are not supported any longer: 
   - MongoDB
   - Memcache 
- Pimcore uses a [different configuration](../../19_Development_Tools_and_Details/09_Cache/01_Custom_Cache_Pools.md) for the cache 

## Model Overrides in `website/config/di.php`
`website/config/di.php` isn't supported anymore.
Custom class mappings / overrides are now configured in `app/config/config.yml`. 
Please have a look at [Overriding Models](../../20_Extending_Pimcore/03_Overriding_Models.md). 

## Logging
- PHP Errors are logged automatically to `/var/logs/ENV.log`
- Email logs, see: [http://symfony.com/doc/current/logging/monolog_email.html]
- Logging levels are specified in Symfony config
- `\Logger::log($message, $loglevel)` is not supported anymore

## Document Editables

- Areabricks have a new format and now depend on a brick class registered as service. For details see [Areabrick Documentation](../../03_Documents/01_Editables/02_Areablock/02_Bricks.md)
- Renderlet controllers do not recieve the `element`, `object`, and `document` parameters anymore (`document` is present,
  but references the content document the renderlet belongs to). To fetch the linked object, please use the `type` and 
  `id` parameters.
  
## Document Templates
- Set Layout only in view template possible and implemented with extend, details see [layout docs](../../02_MVC/02_Template/00_Layouts.md).
```php 
$this->extend('Appbundle::layout.html.php')
```
- Extend always bound to view template (cannot be switched on/off). As a result if a template 
that contains a `$this->extend` is included with `$this->template` into another template, 
that contains a `$this->extend` by itself, the layout is rendered twice
![Double Layouts](../../img/upgrade-layouts.png)

- `$this->template` needs echo to print included template
```php
echo $this->template("Appbundle:Snippets:standard-teaser.html.php", ["myparam" => "foo"]);
```
- When template is included with `$this->template` following parameter names cannot be used 
with `$this->parameterName` notation 
  - current
  - container
  - loader
  - helpers
  - parents
  - stach
  - charset
  - cache
  - escapers
  - globals
  - parser
  - evalTemplate
  - evalParameter

## Controller Plugins
- Replaced by Kernel Events

| Controller-Plugin | Service |
| ----------------- | ------- |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Analytics` | `pimcore.event_listener.google_analytics_code` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Cache` | `pimcore.event_listener.full_page_cache` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\EuCookieLawNotice ` | `pimcore.event_listener.cookie_policy_notice` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\GoogleTagManager` | `pimcore.event_listener.google_tag_manager` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Maintenance` | `pimcore.event_listener.maintenance_page` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\TagManagement` | `pimcore.event_listener.tag_manager` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Targeting` | `pimcore.event_listener.targeting` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Webmastertools` | `pimcore.event_listener.google_search_console_verification` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\WysiwygAttributes` | `pimcore.event_listener.internal_wysiwyg_html_attribute_filter` |

- Replaced by Routes

| Controller-Plugin | Name |
| ----------------- | ---- |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\CommonFilesFilter` | `_pimcore_service_common_files` `_pimcore_service_common_files_apple_touch_icon` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\HybridAuth` | `_pimcore_service_hybridauth` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\QrCode` | `_pimcore_service_qrcode` |
| `Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Thumbnail` | `_pimcore_service_thumbnail` |



## Translations (Shared + Admin) 
- Use of Standard Symfony Translation Component
- Supporting domains / bundles, ... 
- They are now case-sensitive
- Dot-separated fallback notation isn't supported anymore



## E-Mail
- `Pimcore\Mail` now extends `Swift_Message` instead of `Zend_Mail`
- The most common methods should be as they were, following method signature changes are significant:
  - `__construct($subject = null, $body = null, $contentType = null, $charset = null)`
  - `addAttachment(\Swift_Mime_Attachment $attachment)`
  - `createAttachment($data, $mimeType = null, $filename = null, $disposition = null)`
  - `send(\Swift_Mailer $mailer = null)` & `sendWithoutRendering(\Swift_Mailer $mailer = null)`
- check all usages of `Pimcore\Mail`


## Custom Routes 
All parameters needed for assembly url (mentioned in reverse) must be listed in variables.
![Custom Routes](../../img/upgrade-custom-routes.png)


## Events
The Event Manager got replaced by Symfony framework event dispatcher. There is a compatibility 
layer for the Pimcore 4 event manager events though. Except the listed events below, you still could use the Pimcore 4 events. 

|Name | Replacement |
|-----|-------------|
| system.startup | Use the `AppKernel` class | 
| system.di.init | `Pimcore\Event\SystemEvents::PHP_DI_INIT` |
| system.maintenance.activate | `Pimcore\Event\SystemEvents::MAINTENANCE_MODE_ACTIVATE` | 
| system.maintenance.deactivate | `Pimcore\Event\SystemEvents::MAINTENANCE_MODE_DEACTIVATE` | 
| system.cache.clearOutputCache | `Pimcore\Event\SystemEvents::CACHE_CLEAR_FULLPAGE_CACHE` | 
| admin.controller.preInit | `Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\KernelEvents::CONTROLLER` | 
| admin.controller.postInit | `Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\KernelEvents::REPONSE` | 
| frontend.error | no replacement |
| frontend.controller.preInit| no replacement |
| frontend.controller.postInit| no replacement |

But it's recommended to use the new event constants instead. For details see [event docs](../../20_Extending_Pimcore/11_Event_API_and_Event_Manager.md).


## From Plugins to Bundles
- With Pimcore 5 Pimcore Plugins became default Symfony Bundles. See our [bundles docs](../../20_Extending_Pimcore/13_Bundle_Developers_Guide/README.md)
for more details. 

## Adding Object Data Types via Extensions
- Object Data and Layout Types are configured in `pimcore.objects.class_definitions.data.map` 
and `pimcore.objects.class_definitions.layout.map` in Symfony configuration files. 
- As fallback `namespace/name` matching are still available and 
configurable via `pimcore.objects.class_definitions.data.prefixes` and 
`pimcore.objects.class_definitions.layout.prefixes` 
- Plugins/Bundles can add new data types by adding their data types to the configuration 
  entries above


## Console Commands
- Console Commands need to be in the `Console` namespace and their class name needs to end with `Console`. See [Symfony Console Documentation](http://symfony.com/doc/current/console.html#creating-a-command).
- The function `$application->addAutoloadNamespace()` does not exist any more. 
- For more details see [console docs](../../19_Development_Tools_and_Details/11_Console_CLI.md).
- The following commands were moved under a `pimcore:` prefix, but are still available as aliases under their old names.
  The aliases might be removed in later versions, so please use the new names.

| `maintenance` | `pimcore:maintenance` |
| `mysql-tools` | `pimcore:mysql-tools` |
| `reset-password` | `pimcore:user:reset-password` |
| `search-backend-reindex` | `pimcore:search-backend-reindex` |
| `update` | `pimcore:update` |

- `pimcore:user:reset-password` command has a new signature, now accepting the user as first argument instead of the `-u`
  option.

## Zend Registry
- Replaced by `\Pimcore\Cache\Runtime`, interface compatible with `Zend_Registry`
```php
\Pimcore\Cache\Runtime // (interface compatible with Zend_Registry)
// or
$this->get("pimcore.cache.runtime") // service container
```


## Pimcore\Tool::getHttpClient()
- Is only available if [Compatibility Bridge](https://github.com/pimcore/pimcore4-compatibility-bridge) is available. 
- Now returns `GuzzleHttp\Client` instead of `Zend_Http_Client`. 
- New http client is also available on container with ID `pimcore.http_client` - should be used for new implementations.


## Sessions
- If you need sessions, please use the native session handling provided by Symfony 
   (configured through the `framework.session` config). For details see 
   [sessions docs](../../19_Development_Tools_and_Details/35_Working_with_Sessions.md).
- Pimcore adds the possibility to configure sessions before they are started through 
   `SessionConfiguratorInterface` registered as service with the 
   `pimcore.session.configurator` tag.
- Admin sessions `Pimcore\Tool\Session::get/getReadonly()` now return an 
  `AttributeBagInterface´ instead of a ´Zend_Session_Namespace`. Calls to the bag need 
  to be adapted as Symfony's bags do not support magic setters/getters as the 
  Zend namespace did.


## International Number and Date Formatting
- Added a Service for international number and date formatting. For details see [docs page](../../06_Multi_Language_i18n/09_Formatting_Service.md).  


## Functionalities only available when using PimcoreLegacyBundle
- Legacy Underscore Naming Convention of old Pimcore class names like `Object_Abstract`, 
`Document_Page`, `Asset_Image`, ...


## Deprecated Constants
| Name | Equivalent |
| ---- | ---------- | 
| `PIMCORE_FRONTEND_MODULE` | `PIMCORE_SYMFONY_DEFAULT_BUNDLE` |
| `PIMCORE_PLUGINS_PATH` | - |
| `PIMCORE_WEBSITE_PATH` | `PIMCORE_APP_ROOT` |
| `PIMCORE_DOCUMENT_ROOT` | `PIMCORE_WEB_ROOT or PIMCORE_LEGACY_ROOT` |
| `PIMCORE_WEBSITE_VAR` | `PIMCORE_PRIVATE_VAR` |


## Removed Features and Services 

- ExtJs 3.4 Support: Support for ExtJS 3.4 has been finally removed as announced earlier. The current version in use is 
6.0.0. **Please double-check your extensions in advance!**  
- Object Key-Value Store: Use the Classification-Store instead.
- Whoops Error Handler: Got replaced by Symfony default error handler. 
- `startup.php` not supported anymore: Use `boot()` function in `AppKernel` or `AppBundle` instead
- Removed `Pimcore\Tool\XmlWriter` Service
- Removed `\Pimcore\File\Transfer*` Classes
- Controller Plugins
   - `\Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\CssCombine`
   - `\Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\CDN`
   - `\Pimcore\Controller\Plugin\Less`
