doc/Development_Documentation/23_Installation_and_Upgrade/09_Upgrade_Notes/03_Ecommerce_Framework.md, before:

# Breaking Changes from former E-Commerce Framework Plugin 

## Configuration Changes
- removed ConfigController for setting location of `OnlineShopConfig.php` 
   - `OnlineShopConfig.php` must be located always at `PIMCORE_CUSTOM_CONFIGURATION_DIRECTORY` and got renamed to 
      `EcommerceFrameworkConfig.php`
   - all sub configuration files are located relative to `PIMCORE_CUSTOM_CONFIGURATION_DIRECTORY`
- Replaced setting `defaultlocale` in `EcommerceFramework.php` with `defaultCurrency`
- Replaced root node `onlineshop` in `EcommerceFrameworkConfig.php` with `ecommerceframework`

- OrderBackoffice Translations moved to AdminTranslations

- [Findlogic Export URL](../../10_E-Commerce_Framework/05_Index_Service/05_Data_Architecture_and_Indexing_Process.md) 
  changed to `/ecommerceframework/findologic-export`

- Logging now with Symfony standard logging
   - Logs into certain channels: `pimcore_ecommerce`, `pimcore_ecommerce_indexupdater`, `pimcore_ecommerce_sql`, `pimcore_ecommerce_factfinder`, `pimcore_ecommerce_es`, `pimcore_ecommerce_findologic`
   - Log settings in factfinder and findologic configuration section are ignored

## Code Changes
- Changed from Namespace `\OnlineShop\Framework\` to `\Pimcore\Bundle\EcommerceFrameworkBundle\`
   - E-Commerce Framework loads class aliases, so all old class names should work as expected
   
- Replaces `Zend_Config` with `Config` - also in certain interfaces like
   - `IPayment`
   - `OrderManager`
   - `Shipping`
   - `PaymentManager`
   - `PricingManager`
   - `TrackingManager`
  
- Replaced `Zend_Paginator` with `new Zend\Paginator()`

- Replaced `Zend_Db` with `Doctrine DAL` 
   - `\Zend_Db_Select()` becomes `\Pimcore\Db\ZendCompatibility\QueryBuilder` 
   - `\Zend_Db_Expr()` becomes `\Pimcore\Db\ZendCompatibility\Expression`   
   
 - Replaced `Zend_Date` to DateTime - also in certain interfaces like
   - `ICart`
   - `ICartItem`
   - `AbstractOrder` (still works if Pimcore is in `Zend_Date` - mode)
   - `AbstractPaymentInformation` (still works if Pimcore is in `Zend_Date` - mode)
   - `AbstractOffer` (still works if Pimcore is in `Zend_Date` - mode)
   - `OrderDateTime` Filter
   - `IDateRange` for Pricing Manager
   
- Replaced `Zend_Registry` with `Pimcore\Cache\Runtime`

- Replaced `Zend_Currency` with `Pimcore\Bundle\EcommerceFrameworkBundle\Model\Currency`
    - Methods `toCurrency($value, $options)`, `getShortName()`, `getSymbol()`, `getName()` still work as before. 
	- As `$options` `'display'` and `'position'` are supported. 

- Replaced `Zend_Form` with Symfony forms
   - all views that render payment forms have to be adapted 
   - in E-Commerce demo add following snippet
```php 
<?php if ($form instanceof \Symfony\Component\Form\FormBuilderInterface) { ?>
    <p><img src="https://www.wirecard.at/fileadmin/templates/images/wirecard-logo.png"/></p>

    <p><?= $this->translate('checkout.payment.txt') ?></p>

    <?php
        $form->remove('submitbutton');
        $form->add('submitbutton', \Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\SubmitType::class, ['attr' => ['class' => 'btn btn-primary'], 'label' => $this->translate('checkout.payment.paynow')]);
        $container = \Pimcore::getContainer();
        echo $container->get('templating.helper.form')->form($form->getForm()->createView());
    ?>

    <script type="text/javascript">
        $(document).ready(function () {
           document.getElementById('paymentForm').submit();
        });
    </script>
<?php } ?>
```
		
- Removed `Zend_View` 
   - Changed constructor of `AbstractFilterType` (and all subclasses) - no `$view` anymore.
   - `Factory::getFilterService` now has no view parameter anymore.
   - `Pimcore\Bundle\EcommerceFrameworkBundle\FilterService\Helper::setupProductList()` - changed `$view` parameter to 
      `ViewModel $viewModel`.
   - View scripts for filters now defined in Symfony template notation, e.g. 
      `"script" => ":Shop/filters:select_category.html.php"`.
   - Fallback for old view scripts path relative to `PIMCORE_PROJECT_ROOT . "/legacy/website/views/scripts"` - but they 
      are also rendered with Symfony engine.

- CartPriceCalculator: property `$gradTotal` was renamed to `$grandTotal` - needs to be reflected in when subclassing the
  default calculator.
   
- Commands namespace changed from `shop` to `ecommerce`. 

- Renamed tables:
```sql
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_cart TO ecommerceframework_cart; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_cartcheckoutdata TO ecommerceframework_cartcheckoutdata; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_cartitem TO ecommerceframework_cartitem; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_pricing_rule TO ecommerceframework_pricing_rule; 
RENAME TABLE plugins_onlineshop_vouchertoolkit_reservations TO ecommerceframework_vouchertoolkit_reservations;
RENAME TABLE plugins_onlineshop_vouchertoolkit_statistics TO ecommerceframework_vouchertoolkit_statistics;
RENAME TABLE plugins_onlineshop_vouchertoolkit_tokens TO ecommerceframework_vouchertoolkit_tokens;

RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_productindex TO ecommerceframework_productindex; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_productindex_relations TO ecommerceframework_productindex_relations; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_productindex_store TO ecommerceframework_productindex_store; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_optimized_productindex TO ecommerceframework_optimized_productindex; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_optimized_productindex_relations TO ecommerceframework_optimized_productindex_relations; 
```

- Renamed translations & permissions
```sql 
UPDATE translations_admin SET `key` = REPLACE(`key`, 'plugin_onlineshop_', 'bundle_ecommerce_') WHERE `key` LIKE 'plugin_onlineshop%';
UPDATE users_permission_definitions SET `key` = REPLACE(`key`, 'plugin_onlineshop_', 'bundle_ecommerce_');	
```
	
- `AbstractFilterType` (and all filter type implementations): Constructor changed to `public function __construct($script, $config, TranslatorInterface $translator, EngineInterface $renderer);`
- `IEnvironment`: 
  - added 
    - `getSystemLocale()`
    - `getdefaultCurrency()`
  - removed 
    - `setSessionNamespace()`
    - `getSessionNamespace()`
    - `getCurrencyLocale()`

Commit message:

[ECOMMERCE-PRICE-VO][DOCS] Add upgrade notes regarding value object and updated interfaces #1550

doc/Development_Documentation/23_Installation_and_Upgrade/09_Upgrade_Notes/03_Ecommerce_Framework.md, after:

# Breaking Changes from former E-Commerce Framework Plugin 

## Configuration Changes
- removed ConfigController for setting location of `OnlineShopConfig.php` 
   - `OnlineShopConfig.php` must be located always at `PIMCORE_CUSTOM_CONFIGURATION_DIRECTORY` and got renamed to 
      `EcommerceFrameworkConfig.php`
   - all sub configuration files are located relative to `PIMCORE_CUSTOM_CONFIGURATION_DIRECTORY`
- Replaced setting `defaultlocale` in `EcommerceFramework.php` with `defaultCurrency`
- Replaced root node `onlineshop` in `EcommerceFrameworkConfig.php` with `ecommerceframework`

- OrderBackoffice Translations moved to AdminTranslations

- [Findlogic Export URL](../../10_E-Commerce_Framework/05_Index_Service/05_Data_Architecture_and_Indexing_Process.md) 
  changed to `/ecommerceframework/findologic-export`

- Logging now with Symfony standard logging
   - Logs into certain channels: `pimcore_ecommerce`, `pimcore_ecommerce_indexupdater`, `pimcore_ecommerce_sql`, `pimcore_ecommerce_factfinder`, `pimcore_ecommerce_es`, `pimcore_ecommerce_findologic`
   - Log settings in factfinder and findologic configuration section are ignored

## Code Changes
- Changed from Namespace `\OnlineShop\Framework\` to `\Pimcore\Bundle\EcommerceFrameworkBundle\`
   - E-Commerce Framework loads class aliases, so all old class names should work as expected
   
- Replaces `Zend_Config` with `Config` - also in certain interfaces like
   - `IPayment`
   - `OrderManager`
   - `Shipping`
   - `PaymentManager`
   - `PricingManager`
   - `TrackingManager`
  
- Replaced `Zend_Paginator` with `new Zend\Paginator()`

- Replaced `Zend_Db` with `Doctrine DAL` 
   - `\Zend_Db_Select()` becomes `\Pimcore\Db\ZendCompatibility\QueryBuilder` 
   - `\Zend_Db_Expr()` becomes `\Pimcore\Db\ZendCompatibility\Expression`   
   
 - Replaced `Zend_Date` to DateTime - also in certain interfaces like
   - `ICart`
   - `ICartItem`
   - `AbstractOrder` (still works if Pimcore is in `Zend_Date` - mode)
   - `AbstractPaymentInformation` (still works if Pimcore is in `Zend_Date` - mode)
   - `AbstractOffer` (still works if Pimcore is in `Zend_Date` - mode)
   - `OrderDateTime` Filter
   - `IDateRange` for Pricing Manager
   
- Replaced `Zend_Registry` with `Pimcore\Cache\Runtime`

- Replaced `Zend_Currency` with `Pimcore\Bundle\EcommerceFrameworkBundle\Model\Currency`
    - Methods `toCurrency($value, $options)`, `getShortName()`, `getSymbol()`, `getName()` still work as before. 
	- As `$options` `'display'` and `'position'` are supported. 

- Replaced `Zend_Form` with Symfony forms
   - all views that render payment forms have to be adapted 
   - in E-Commerce demo add following snippet
```php 
<?php if ($form instanceof \Symfony\Component\Form\FormBuilderInterface) { ?>
    <p><img src="https://www.wirecard.at/fileadmin/templates/images/wirecard-logo.png"/></p>

    <p><?= $this->translate('checkout.payment.txt') ?></p>

    <?php
        $form->remove('submitbutton');
        $form->add('submitbutton', \Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\SubmitType::class, ['attr' => ['class' => 'btn btn-primary'], 'label' => $this->translate('checkout.payment.paynow')]);
        $container = \Pimcore::getContainer();
        echo $container->get('templating.helper.form')->form($form->getForm()->createView());
    ?>

    <script type="text/javascript">
        $(document).ready(function () {
           document.getElementById('paymentForm').submit();
        });
    </script>
<?php } ?>
```
		
- Removed `Zend_View` 
   - Changed constructor of `AbstractFilterType` (and all subclasses) - no `$view` anymore.
   - `Factory::getFilterService` now has no view parameter anymore.
   - `Pimcore\Bundle\EcommerceFrameworkBundle\FilterService\Helper::setupProductList()` - changed `$view` parameter to 
      `ViewModel $viewModel`.
   - View scripts for filters now defined in Symfony template notation, e.g. 
      `"script" => ":Shop/filters:select_category.html.php"`.
   - Fallback for old view scripts path relative to `PIMCORE_PROJECT_ROOT . "/legacy/website/views/scripts"` - but they 
      are also rendered with Symfony engine.

- Price objects (`IPrice`) now use a value object instead of floats to represent prices. All calls to `get*Amount()`,
  `set*Amount()` and all custom calculations need to be updated to work with the value object.
- Added PHP 7 type hints to interfaces where applicable, especially regarding pricing. You might need to update your
  implementations to match updated interface definitions.
- CartPriceCalculator: property `$gradTotal` was renamed to `$grandTotal` - needs to be reflected in when subclassing the
  default calculator.
   
- Commands namespace changed from `shop` to `ecommerce`. 

- Renamed tables:
```sql
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_cart TO ecommerceframework_cart; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_cartcheckoutdata TO ecommerceframework_cartcheckoutdata; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_cartitem TO ecommerceframework_cartitem; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_pricing_rule TO ecommerceframework_pricing_rule; 
RENAME TABLE plugins_onlineshop_vouchertoolkit_reservations TO ecommerceframework_vouchertoolkit_reservations;
RENAME TABLE plugins_onlineshop_vouchertoolkit_statistics TO ecommerceframework_vouchertoolkit_statistics;
RENAME TABLE plugins_onlineshop_vouchertoolkit_tokens TO ecommerceframework_vouchertoolkit_tokens;

RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_productindex TO ecommerceframework_productindex; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_productindex_relations TO ecommerceframework_productindex_relations; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_productindex_store TO ecommerceframework_productindex_store; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_optimized_productindex TO ecommerceframework_optimized_productindex; 
RENAME TABLE plugin_onlineshop_optimized_productindex_relations TO ecommerceframework_optimized_productindex_relations; 
```

- Renamed translations & permissions
```sql 
UPDATE translations_admin SET `key` = REPLACE(`key`, 'plugin_onlineshop_', 'bundle_ecommerce_') WHERE `key` LIKE 'plugin_onlineshop%';
UPDATE users_permission_definitions SET `key` = REPLACE(`key`, 'plugin_onlineshop_', 'bundle_ecommerce_');	
```
	
- `AbstractFilterType` (and all filter type implementations): Constructor changed to `public function __construct($script, $config, TranslatorInterface $translator, EngineInterface $renderer);`
- `IEnvironment`: 
  - added 
    - `getSystemLocale()`
    - `getdefaultCurrency()`
  - removed 
    - `setSessionNamespace()`
    - `getSessionNamespace()`
    - `getCurrencyLocale()`
