docs/Development_Documentation/03_Documents/01_Editables/04_Area.md, before:

# Area Editable

## General
The area editable is similar to the [areablock](./02_Areablock/README.md) editable, the only difference is that the area bricks are not wrapped 
into a block element, and the editor cannot choose which area is used, this has to be done in the editable configuration in the template.

## Configuration

| Name     | Type   | Description                                                    |
|----------|--------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `type`   | string | ID of the brick which should be used in this area              |
| `params` | array  | Optional Parameter see [areablock](./02_Areablock/README.md) for details |

## Methods

| Name                | Return        | Description                                                 |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| `getElement($name)` | Document\Tag  | Retrieves an editable from within the actual area           |

## Example

```php
<div>
    <?= $this->area("myArea", ["type" => "nameofbrick"]); ?>
</div>
```

## Example with Parameters

```php
<div>
    <?= $this->area("myArea", [
        "type" => "nameofbrick",
        "params" => [
            "nameofbrick" => [
                "param1" => 123
            ]
        ]
    ]); ?>
</div>
```

Get the params in your brick:

```php
<div>
    <?= $this->param1; ?>
</div>
```

Commit message:

Add `class` configuration to all editables - resolves #892

docs/Development_Documentation/03_Documents/01_Editables/04_Area.md, after:

# Area Editable

## General
The area editable is similar to the [areablock](./02_Areablock/README.md) editable, the only difference is that the area bricks are not wrapped 
into a block element, and the editor cannot choose which area is used, this has to be done in the editable configuration in the template.

## Configuration

| Name     | Type    | Description                                                                                   |
|----------|---------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `type`   | string  | ID of the brick which should be used in this area                                             |
| `params` | array   | Optional Parameter see [areablock](./02_Areablock/README.md) for details                      |
| `class`  | string  | A CSS class that is added to the surrounding container of this element in editmode            |

## Methods

| Name                | Return        | Description                                                 |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| `getElement($name)` | Document\Tag  | Retrieves an editable from within the actual area           |

## Example

```php
<div>
    <?= $this->area("myArea", ["type" => "nameofbrick"]); ?>
</div>
```

## Example with Parameters

```php
<div>
    <?= $this->area("myArea", [
        "type" => "nameofbrick",
        "params" => [
            "nameofbrick" => [
                "param1" => 123
            ]
        ]
    ]); ?>
</div>
```

Get the params in your brick:

```php
<div>
    <?= $this->param1; ?>
</div>
```
