docs/Development_Documentation/03_Documents/01_Editables/08_Checkbox.md, before:

# Checkbox Editable

## Configuration

| Name     | Type    | Description                                                          |
|----------|---------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `reload` | boolean | Set to true to reload the page in editmode after changing the state. |
| `label`  | string  | a `<label>` which is added in the editmode                           |

## Methods

| Name          | Return    | Description                                                            |
|---------------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `isChecked()` | boolean   | Get status of the checkbox.                                            |
| `isEmpty()`   | boolean   | Whether the editable is empty or not (alias of `isChecked()`)          |

## Simple Example

```php
<?= $this->checkbox("myCheckbox"); ?>
```

## Advanced Example

```php
Setting XYZ: <?= $this->checkbox("myCheckbox"); ?>

<?php if($this->checkbox("myCheckbox")->isChecked()): ?>
    <div>
        <?php //do something... ?>
    </div>
<? endif; ?>
```

Commit message:

Add `class` configuration to all editables - resolves #892

docs/Development_Documentation/03_Documents/01_Editables/08_Checkbox.md, after:

# Checkbox Editable

## Configuration

| Name     | Type    | Description                                                                        |
|----------|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `reload` | boolean | Set to true to reload the page in editmode after changing the state.               |
| `label`  | string  | a `<label>` which is added in the editmode                                         |
| `class`  | string  | A CSS class that is added to the surrounding container of this element in editmode |

## Methods

| Name          | Return    | Description                                                            |
|---------------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `isChecked()` | boolean   | Get status of the checkbox.                                            |
| `isEmpty()`   | boolean   | Whether the editable is empty or not (alias of `isChecked()`)          |

## Simple Example

```php
<?= $this->checkbox("myCheckbox"); ?>
```

## Advanced Example

```php
Setting XYZ: <?= $this->checkbox("myCheckbox"); ?>

<?php if($this->checkbox("myCheckbox")->isChecked()): ?>
    <div>
        <?php //do something... ?>
    </div>
<? endif; ?>
```
