docs/Development_Documentation/03_Documents/01_Editables/24_Numeric.md, before:

# Numeric Editable

## General
The numeric editable is very similar to the [input editable](./16_Input.md), but with special configurations for the use with numbers.

## Configuration

| Name       | Type    | Description                 |
|------------|---------|-----------------------------|
| `maxValue` | float   | Define a maximum value      |
| `minValue` | float   | Define a minimum value      |
| `width`    | integer | Width of the field in pixel |

## Methods

| Name        | Return      | Description                                                                  |
|-------------|-------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `getData()` | int|float   | Value of the numeric field, this is useful to get the value even in editmode |
| `isEmpty()` | boolean     | Whether the editable is empty or not                                         |

## Examples

### Basic Usage

```php
<?= $this->numeric("myNumber"); ?>
```

Now you can see the **numeric** value in the editmode view 
![Numeric input - editmode](../../img/editables_numeric_simple_editmode.png)

### Advanced Usage

In the following example we're going to use a minimal and maximum value as well as a decimal precision. 

```php
<?= $this->numeric("myNumber", [
    "width" => 300,
    "minValue" => 0,
    "maxValue" => 100,
    "decimalPrecision" => 0
]); ?>
```

To display the number also in editmode, you can use the method `getData()`
```php
<p>
    <?= $this->numeric("myNumber")->getData(); ?>
</p>
```

Commit message:

Add `class` configuration to all editables - resolves #892

docs/Development_Documentation/03_Documents/01_Editables/24_Numeric.md, after:

# Numeric Editable

## General
The numeric editable is very similar to the [input editable](./16_Input.md), but with special configurations for the use with numbers.

## Configuration

| Name       | Type    | Description                                                                        |
|------------|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `maxValue` | float   | Define a maximum value                                                             |
| `minValue` | float   | Define a minimum value                                                             |
| `width`    | integer | Width of the field in pixel                                                        |
| `class`    | string  | A CSS class that is added to the surrounding container of this element in editmode |

## Methods

| Name        | Return      | Description                                                                  |
|-------------|-------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `getData()` | int|float   | Value of the numeric field, this is useful to get the value even in editmode |
| `isEmpty()` | boolean     | Whether the editable is empty or not                                         |

## Examples

### Basic Usage

```php
<?= $this->numeric("myNumber"); ?>
```

Now you can see the **numeric** value in the editmode view 
![Numeric input - editmode](../../img/editables_numeric_simple_editmode.png)

### Advanced Usage

In the following example we're going to use a minimal and maximum value as well as a decimal precision. 

```php
<?= $this->numeric("myNumber", [
    "width" => 300,
    "minValue" => 0,
    "maxValue" => 100,
    "decimalPrecision" => 0
]); ?>
```

To display the number also in editmode, you can use the method `getData()`
```php
<p>
    <?= $this->numeric("myNumber")->getData(); ?>
</p>
```
