docs/Development_Documentation/03_Documents/01_Editables/30_Select.md, before:

# Select Editable

## General

The select editable generates select-box component in Editmode.

## Configuration

| Name     | Type    | Description                                                     |
|----------|---------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `store`  | array   | Key/Value pairs for the available options.                      |
| `reload` | bool    | Set true to reload the page in editmode after selecting an item |
| `width`  | integer | Width of the select box in pixel                                |

## Methods

| Name        | Return | Description                                                           |
|-------------|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `getData()` | string | Value of the select, this is useful to get the value even in editmode |
| `isEmpty()` | bool   | Whether the editable is empty or not.                                 |

## Examples

### Basic Usage

The code below shows a select box in editmode,
in the frontend preview you will see simply the value of the chosen option.

```php
<?php
if($this->editmode):

    echo $this->select("valid_for", [
            "store" => [
                ['one-month', 'One month'],
                ['three-months', 'Three months'],
                ['unlimited', 'Unlimited']
            ]
        ]);

else:
?>
<p>
    <?= $this->translate("Something is valid for") ?>: <?= $this->translate($this->select("valid_for")->getData()) ?>
</p>
<?php endif; ?>
```

Editmode:
![Select editable in editmode](../../img/editables_select_editmode_preview.png)

Frontend:
![Select editable in frontend](../../img/editables_select_frontend_preview.png)

### Preselect an Option

You can ***preselect*** an option in your select editable by using `setDataFromResource()`.

```php
if($this->editmode):
    if($this->select("valid_for")->isEmpty()):
        $this->select("valid_for")->setDataFromResource("unlimited");
    endif;
    
    ...
    
endif;
```

Commit message:

Add `class` configuration to all editables - resolves #892

docs/Development_Documentation/03_Documents/01_Editables/30_Select.md, after:

# Select Editable

## General

The select editable generates select-box component in Editmode.

## Configuration

| Name     | Type    | Description                                                                        |
|----------|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `store`  | array   | Key/Value pairs for the available options.                                         |
| `reload` | bool    | Set true to reload the page in editmode after selecting an item                    |
| `width`  | integer | Width of the select box in pixel                                                   |
| `class`  | string  | A CSS class that is added to the surrounding container of this element in editmode |

## Methods

| Name        | Return | Description                                                           |
|-------------|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `getData()` | string | Value of the select, this is useful to get the value even in editmode |
| `isEmpty()` | bool   | Whether the editable is empty or not.                                 |

## Examples

### Basic Usage

The code below shows a select box in editmode,
in the frontend preview you will see simply the value of the chosen option.

```php
<?php
if($this->editmode):

    echo $this->select("valid_for", [
            "store" => [
                ['one-month', 'One month'],
                ['three-months', 'Three months'],
                ['unlimited', 'Unlimited']
            ]
        ]);

else:
?>
<p>
    <?= $this->translate("Something is valid for") ?>: <?= $this->translate($this->select("valid_for")->getData()) ?>
</p>
<?php endif; ?>
```

Editmode:
![Select editable in editmode](../../img/editables_select_editmode_preview.png)

Frontend:
![Select editable in frontend](../../img/editables_select_frontend_preview.png)

### Preselect an Option

You can ***preselect*** an option in your select editable by using `setDataFromResource()`.

```php
if($this->editmode):
    if($this->select("valid_for")->isEmpty()):
        $this->select("valid_for")->setDataFromResource("unlimited");
    endif;
    
    ...
    
endif;
```
