docs/Development_Documentation/03_Documents/01_Editables/34_Table.md, before:

# Table Editable

## General

The table editable provides the ability to edit a table structure.

## Configuration

| Name       | Type    | Description                                                             |
|------------|---------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `defaults` | array   | Array can have the following properties: rows, cols, data (see example) |
| `width`    | integer | Width of the field in pixel                                             |

## Methods

| Name        | Return | Description                           |
|-------------|--------|---------------------------------------|
| `getData()` | array  | Get the data of the table as array    |
| `isEmpty()` | bool   | Whether the editable is empty or not. |

# Examples

### Basic usage

```php
<h4><?= $this->translate("Product Attributes"); ?></h4>
<?= $this->table("productProperties", [
    "width" => 700,
    "height" => 400,
    "defaults" => [
        "cols" => 2,
        "rows" => 3,
        "data" => [
            ["Attribute name", "Value"], // headers line
            ["Color", "Black"],
            ["Size", "Large"],
            ["Availability", "Out of stock"]
        ]
    ]
]); ?>
```

You're now able to change columns and the predefined data in the editmode.

![Table editable rendered in the editmode](../../img/editables_table_editmode.png)

### Processing the Data

Sometimes you need use only the data from a filled table. 
You would just use the `getData()` method instead of rendering the entire HTML of the table.

```php
<?php if($this->editmode):
echo $this->table("productProperties", [
    "width" => 700,
    "height" => 400,
    "defaults" => [
        "cols" => 2,
        "rows" => 3,
        "data" => [
            ["Attribute name", "Value"], // headers line
            ["Color", "Black"],
            ["Size", "Large"],
            ["Availability", "Out of stock"]
        ]
    ]
]);
else:
    $data = $this->table("productProperties")->getData();
    // returns the data as an array
    // do something with it ;-) 
endif;
?>
```


The output from `getData()`:

```
array(4) {
  [0] => array(3) {
    [0] => string(14) "Attribute name"
    [1] => string(5) "Value"
    [2] => string(18) " Additional column"
  }
  [1] => array(3) {
    [0] => string(5) "Color"
    [1] => string(5) "Black"
    [2] => string(1) " "
  }
  [2] => array(3) {
    [0] => string(4) "Size"
    [1] => string(5) "Large"
    [2] => string(1) " "
  }
  [3] => array(3) {
    [0] => string(12) "Availability"
    [1] => string(12) "Out of stock"
    [2] => string(1) " "
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Add `class` configuration to all editables - resolves #892

docs/Development_Documentation/03_Documents/01_Editables/34_Table.md, after:

# Table Editable

## General

The table editable provides the ability to edit a table structure.

## Configuration

| Name       | Type    | Description                                                                        |
|------------|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `defaults` | array   | Array can have the following properties: rows, cols, data (see example)            |
| `width`    | integer | Width of the field in pixel                                                        |
| `class`    | string  | A CSS class that is added to the surrounding container of this element in editmode |

## Methods

| Name        | Return | Description                           |
|-------------|--------|---------------------------------------|
| `getData()` | array  | Get the data of the table as array    |
| `isEmpty()` | bool   | Whether the editable is empty or not. |

# Examples

### Basic usage

```php
<h4><?= $this->translate("Product Attributes"); ?></h4>
<?= $this->table("productProperties", [
    "width" => 700,
    "height" => 400,
    "defaults" => [
        "cols" => 2,
        "rows" => 3,
        "data" => [
            ["Attribute name", "Value"], // headers line
            ["Color", "Black"],
            ["Size", "Large"],
            ["Availability", "Out of stock"]
        ]
    ]
]); ?>
```

You're now able to change columns and the predefined data in the editmode.

![Table editable rendered in the editmode](../../img/editables_table_editmode.png)

### Processing the Data

Sometimes you need use only the data from a filled table. 
You would just use the `getData()` method instead of rendering the entire HTML of the table.

```php
<?php if($this->editmode):
echo $this->table("productProperties", [
    "width" => 700,
    "height" => 400,
    "defaults" => [
        "cols" => 2,
        "rows" => 3,
        "data" => [
            ["Attribute name", "Value"], // headers line
            ["Color", "Black"],
            ["Size", "Large"],
            ["Availability", "Out of stock"]
        ]
    ]
]);
else:
    $data = $this->table("productProperties")->getData();
    // returns the data as an array
    // do something with it ;-) 
endif;
?>
```


The output from `getData()`:

```
array(4) {
  [0] => array(3) {
    [0] => string(14) "Attribute name"
    [1] => string(5) "Value"
    [2] => string(18) " Additional column"
  }
  [1] => array(3) {
    [0] => string(5) "Color"
    [1] => string(5) "Black"
    [2] => string(1) " "
  }
  [2] => array(3) {
    [0] => string(4) "Size"
    [1] => string(5) "Large"
    [2] => string(1) " "
  }
  [3] => array(3) {
    [0] => string(12) "Availability"
    [1] => string(12) "Out of stock"
    [2] => string(1) " "
  }
}
```
