doc/User_Documentation/01_Objects/01_Grid_Configuration_Operators/README.md, before:

# Grid Column Configuration Operators

Grid Configuration Operators allow to add special columns to your grid which first are somehow assembled or converted using operators listed below.

Please note that the portfolio of available operators (and how they work in detail) may change until  release 5.1.0).

![Configurator Button](../../img/gridconfig/operator_overview.png)

## Overview

* [Anonymizer](./Operators/01_Anonymizer.md) 
* [AnyGetter](./Operators/02_AnyGetter.md)
* [Arithmetic](./Operators/03_Arithmethic.md)
* [AssetMetadata](./Operators/04_AssetMetadataGetter.md)
* [Boolean](./Operators/05_Boolean.md)
* [Boolean Formatter](./Operators/06_BooleanFormatter.md)
* [CaseConverter](./Operators/07_CaseConverter.md)
* [CharCounter](./Operators/08_CharCounter.md)
* [Concatenator](./Operators/09_Concatenator.md)
* [ElementCounter](./Operators/10_ElementCounter.md)
* [FieldCollectionGetter](./Operators/11_FieldCollectionGetter.md)
* [IsEqual](./Operators/12_IsEqual.md)
* [JSON Encode/Decode](./Operators/13_JSON.md)
* [LFExpander](./Operators/14_LFExpander.md)
* [LocaleSwitcher](./Operators/15_LocaleSwitcher.md)
* [Merge](./Operators/16_Merge.md)
* [PHP Serialize/Unserialize](./Operators/17_PHP.md)
* [PHPCode](./Operators/18_PHPCode.md)
* [RequiredBy](./Operators/19_RequiredBy.md)
* [StringContains](./Operators/20_StringContains.md)
* [StringReplace](./Operators/21_StringReplace.md)
* [Substring](./Operators/22_Substring.md)
* [Text](./Operators/23_Text.md)
* [TranslateValue](./Operators/24_TranslateValue.md)
* [Trimmer](./Operators/25_Trimmer.md)

Commit message:

[Grid Configuration] Add concept to render result of getter as image #2222

doc/User_Documentation/01_Objects/01_Grid_Configuration_Operators/README.md, after:

# Grid Column Configuration Operators (Experimental)

Grid Configuration Operators allow you to add special columns to your grid which first are somehow assembled or converted using operators listed below.

Please note that the portfolio of available operators (and how they work in detail) may change until release 5.1.0).

![Configurator Button](../../img/gridconfig/operator_overview.png)

## Grid renderer

By default the string representation of the result value is displayed. 

![Render example 1](../../img/gridconfig/gridrenderer1.png)

This can be changed by defining an alternative renderer. In the following example, the image of the second collection item would be rendered as Hotspotimage.

![Render example 2](../../img/gridconfig/gridrenderer2.png)

## Operator Overview

* [Anonymizer](./Operators/01_Anonymizer.md) 
* [AnyGetter](./Operators/02_AnyGetter.md)
* [Arithmetic](./Operators/03_Arithmethic.md)
* [AssetMetadata](./Operators/04_AssetMetadataGetter.md)
* [Boolean](./Operators/05_Boolean.md)
* [Boolean Formatter](./Operators/06_BooleanFormatter.md)
* [CaseConverter](./Operators/07_CaseConverter.md)
* [CharCounter](./Operators/08_CharCounter.md)
* [Concatenator](./Operators/09_Concatenator.md)
* [ElementCounter](./Operators/10_ElementCounter.md)
* [FieldCollectionGetter](./Operators/11_FieldCollectionGetter.md)
* [IsEqual](./Operators/12_IsEqual.md)
* [JSON Encode/Decode](./Operators/13_JSON.md)
* [LFExpander](./Operators/14_LFExpander.md)
* [LocaleSwitcher](./Operators/15_LocaleSwitcher.md)
* [Merge](./Operators/16_Merge.md)
* [PHP Serialize/Unserialize](./Operators/17_PHP.md)
* [PHPCode](./Operators/18_PHPCode.md)
* [RequiredBy](./Operators/19_RequiredBy.md)
* [StringContains](./Operators/20_StringContains.md)
* [StringReplace](./Operators/21_StringReplace.md)
* [Substring](./Operators/22_Substring.md)
* [Text](./Operators/23_Text.md)
* [TranslateValue](./Operators/24_TranslateValue.md)
* [Trimmer](./Operators/25_Trimmer.md)
